1. primary key vs forgeign kay
	primary key: a specific choice of a minimal set of sttributrs or columns that uniquely specify a tuple or a row in a table.
		     Relate to a single table
		     value cannot be null
		     cannot be duplicate values
		     there can only be a single primary key in a table
       		     used to identify the records of the table uniquely

	foreign key: a field or collection of fields in one table that uniquely identifies a row of another table or the same table
		     related to two tables
		     value can be null
			can have null value 
			there can be multiple foreign keys in a table
			used to link two tables


2.JOIN 
  1). inner join:The INNER JOIN keyword selects records that have matching values in both tables.
  2). left join:The LEFT JOIN keyword returns all records from the left table (table1), and the matching records from the right table (table2). The result is 0 records from the right side, if there is no match.
  3). right join: The RIGHT JOIN keyword returns all records from the right table (table2), and the matching records from the left table (table1). The result is 0 records from the left side, if there is no match.
  4). full : The FULL OUTER JOIN keyword returns all records when there is a match in left (table1) or right (table2) table records.
  5). self join: when you join a table to it self(usually happen in employee.id = manager.id)
  
  
  
3. left()
The LEFT() function extracts a number of characters from a string (starting from left).
Parameter	           Description
string	Required.          The string to extract from
number_of_chars	Required.  The number of characters to extract. If the number exceeds the number of characters in string, it returns string
     
4.ifnull(function,value): if output of function is null, we can replace the output with values
5. TOP, LIMIT and FETCH FIRST: slect first # of data from the chart.
6. group by: aggregate function. when the problem involved in min max order 
7. concat(): The CONCAT() function adds two or more strings together.
   GROUP_CONCAT() function returns a string with concatenated non-NULL value from a group.
   Returns NULL when there are no non-NULL values.


8. Aggregate functions are used to perform operations across entire columns (which could include millions of rows of data or more)
Aggregate functions: count(), max&min, sum(), avg()

9. difference between where and having
1.	WHERE Clause is used to filter the records from the table based on the specified condition.	
	HAVING Clause is used to filter record from the groups based on the specified condition.
2.	WHERE Clause can be used without GROUP BY Clause	
	HAVING Clause cannot be used without GROUP BY Clause
3.	WHERE Clause implements in row operations	
	HAVING Clause implements in column operation
4.	WHERE Clause cannot contain aggregate function	
	HAVING Clause can contain aggregate function
5.	WHERE Clause can be used with SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE statement.	
	HAVING Clause can only be used with SELECT statement.
6.	WHERE Clause is used before GROUP BY Clause	
	HAVING Clause is used after GROUP BY Clause
7.	WHERE Clause is used with single row function like UPPER, LOWER etc.	
	HAVING Clause is used with multiple row function like SUM, COUNT etc.

10. union(): The UNION operator is used to combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements.
Every SELECT statement within UNION must have the same number of columns
The columns must also have similar data types
The columns in every SELECT statement must also be in the same order

11. datediff(): The DATEDIFF() function returns the difference between two dates.
   example: SELECT DATEDIFF(year, '2017/08/25', '2011/08/25') AS DateDiff;
   
   
12. using()

13. case when....else......end

14. %, 代替字符.
  example: SELECT * FROM PATIENTS WHERE
CONDITIONS LIKE '% DIAB1%' OR
CONDITIONS LIKE 'DIAB1%';
